[Music]
modern technologies are more advanced
than what people used in the past aren't
they I mean they didn't have lasers that
cut through metal with precision just by
typing some formulas into a computer but
that begs the question how on earth did
ancient engineers create some amazing
technological and architectural wonders
well check it out counting down from
number 11 Greek fire this was the weapon
to have back in the seventh century
Greek fire was shot out of what can only
be described as ancient flame throwers
they mostly used it on ships and it
spread pure destruction wherever it was
aimed they say enemies couldn't even put
it out with water or sand in fact water
only made the fire stronger scientists
believe that the Byzantines used a
mixture of what sounds like something
you'd hear about in your chemistry class
naphtha quicklime sulfur pine resin
experts are still at odds over the exact
recipe of this unstoppable liquid fire
but whatever it was it worked
[Music]
number 10
the Antikythera mechanism how about an
ancient Greek computer it might not look
like the PC you have at home but it was
still incredibly complex for its time
the strange mechanism is made from 37
bronze gears almost like an intricate
clock it was probably used as an
astronomic meteorological and
cartographic calculator of sorts back
around 100 BCE the Antikythera mechanism
could among other things calculate the
movement of celestial bodies determine
the dates of 42 astronomic events
including solar eclipses and measure the
strength of winds on the sea and even
the moon's orbit around the earth number
nine the Shang hung sighs Moscow in 132
C e Chinese scientist and inventor shang
hong introduced the first sized Moscow
that could predict an earthquake with
the accuracy of modern instruments it's
made of bronze and looks like an
upside-down vase decorated with dragons
and
on all sides but all those pieces aren't
just for show inside the vessel there's
a pendulum that would start moving when
an earthquake began even if it happened
hundreds of miles away that would cause
a bronze bell to fall from one of the
Dragons mouths and into the Frog below
it making a loud ring how exactly all
that happened within the vase part and
as a result of a distant earthquake
still isn't understood to this day
people have even tried to recreate it in
modern times all to no avail number
eight the iron pillar of Delhi one of
the most mysterious human-made objects
can be found at an ancient temple in
Delhi India it's almost 24 feet tall and
99.5% pure iron so what's the big deal
well the strange thing about the pillar
is that it has entrusted over the last
16 centuries the climate in India is
very moist in such conditions the iron
pillar should have been eaten away by
rust over the centuries but it looks
almost brand-new the secret of its
production and the name of its creator
are unknown the sign in Sanskrit says
that the pillar was made during the
reign of Chandra Gupta - which was
between 380 and 415 C II any ideas on
how this thing has managed to stay rust
free share your theories down in the
comments number 7 the face does disc in
1908 an Italian expedition in the
southern part of Crete excavated a
palace near the ancient city of fastest
that's where archeologists Luigi perlier
found the mysterious clay disc is
covered in a swirl of hieroglyphs that
have nothing to do with local languages
there are 259 mysterious signs that
still can't be deciphered because they
don't occur anywhere else the disc alone
isn't enough to crack the code since
there are too few signs on it scientists
don't know the exact time and place of
its production and what it was used for
they do know that the text on the disc
was applied with special stamps that
must have been around
or the disk itself that means there
could be others maybe one day they'll be
found too and we'll finally know what's
written on this mysterious disk number
six the Baghdad battery didn't think
they had batteries 2,000 years ago I
didn't either until I saw this which
seems to be humankind's first battery
was discovered in Baghdad in 1936 it's
believed to date back to the 2nd century
Parthian period it's an oval-shaped clay
jar that stands 5 inches high inside
there was a folded sheet of copper and
iron rod and several pieces of bitumen
bitumen was used to glue up the upper
and lower edges of the jar which means
there must have been liquid inside
corrosion on the copper likely caused by
vinegar or wine seemed to point to this
theory basically somehow this thing
conducted an electric current yeah 2,000
years before Alessandro Volta introduced
to the world the first version of the
modern battery we have today hmm number
5 the rock ship of Masuda a ship like
structure made out of rock
I imagine this thing didn't float very
well okay I doubt this 800 ton granite
rock bigger than the size of a school
bus and carved in the shape of a boat
was used for sailing that and it's
sitting way up on a hill with two huge
square holes carved out of the middle
the rock ship of Masuda is just one of
many unexplained stone structures you
can see in the village of Asuka Japan
they date back to 250 to 550 seee but
who built them and how or why they did
is still beyond anyone who study the
site one theory is that the rock ship
itself was used by ancient Japanese
astronomers as an observation deck
others believe it's an unfinished
entrance to a burial ground as of yet
researchers can't know for sure
[Music]
for Roman concrete if you think modern
buildings are the most durable let me
tell you about Roman concrete they
started using concrete in ancient Rome
around the end of the third century BCE
and did it for about 700 years the
Romans didn't invent it themselves they
borrowed the recipe from the Greeks
patricians and other nations but it was
in Rome that concrete became widely used
the secret to this incredible strength
seems to be their use of volcanic rock
this made structures especially ones on
the harbour incredibly resistant to
water erosion the same can't be said
about the concrete we use today the
exact recipe they used isn't known but
its durability is quite obvious 2,000
years later 3 the Saboo disc in 1936
Egyptologist Walter Brian Emery found a
strange-looking disc as he was studying
the burial chamber of a Pharaoh's son
and city official named Sabu the disc is
a round plate made of stone with several
unused blades and a cavity in the center
it's about two feet in diameter and
kinda resembles a large steering wheel
the ancient Egyptians used a chisel to
work with the stone but making something
fragile with such a complicated form
likely demanded a different technology
and a lot of skill experts still don't
know what it is it seems too fragile to
have been used for some functional
purpose like a wheel or propeller yet
it's so specifically shaped that it
probably wasn't just for decoration
plenty of theories out there but no real
answers yet number two the Nimrod lens
this lens was found in 1853 during an
excavation in Nimrod one of the ancient
capitals of Assyria also known as the
land yard lens after the archeologists
who discovered it Austen Henry LAN Yong
this thing was created between 750 and
710 BCE it's made out of a natural rock
crystal and has a slightly oval form
there's no single scientific
in about its initial purpose one theory
is that it was used as a magnifying
glass when making intricate engravings
something the locals of this time and
place are known for it could also have
been used to start fires Italian
professor Giovanni Pett annatto offered
his own theory that the ancient
Assyrians used it as part of a telescope
this could explain how they knew so much
about astronomy number one the stone of
the south another jaw-dropping monolith
was found in Baalbek Lebanon it's over
75 feet long 17 feet wide and 15 feet
high and weighs about 1,000 tonnes
making it one of the biggest human
carved structures we know of can you
imagine that this was all made using a
chisel the ancients must have had
advanced technology to do the job a
10-minute walk from the stone will lead
you to the Roman Heliopolis temple
complex which has three smaller
megaliths although there are pretty
mind-bendingly huge as well scientists
calculated that to move this stone 60
thousand people had to push or pull it
simultaneously maybe that's why they
changed their mind and left it
unfinished in the end I guess we can
only speculate what do you think which
of these ancient marbles would you like
to see in person and feel free to add to
the list down in the comments hey if you
learn something new today then give this
video a like and share it with a friend
but don't go hunting for mysterious
antiquities Indiana Jones just yet
because we have over 2,000 cool videos
for you to check out just click on this
left or right video and enjoy stay on
the bright side of life